---
layout:     post
title:      Current Examples
date:       2017-07-19 
summary:    A little description of the examples available in the first version of CauseCade
categories: info example
---

## About Networks 

CauseCade, as of the first version and time of writing this post, does not support loading and saving of networks.
Support for this is being worked on, but for the time being, one will have to create networks from scratch, or use the currently available example networks.

## Examples

*both (current) examples are taken from the example list of [Netica](https://www.norsys.com/netica.html).*

Currently, 2 example networks are availabe:
* Animals
* Car Test

# Animals
The first (Animals), consists of 7 nodes (and is thus a slightly modified version of the one in Netica) and 6 edges. The network's goal is to infer what animal you are looking at, based on information in the other nodes.
Thus (if you load the network in CauseCade), you can see that animals is the root node, making this an example of **upstream inference** (though it isnt always the case that the root node is the most interesting). By changing the states of the other nodes (for example: set the HasShell property to true, which corresponds to observing that the animal as a Shell),
we can see how this changes the probability of the animal in question being a certain type changes.

# Car Test
This network allows you to infer what the chance is of your car starting, or conversely, why you car is not starting. It is not a very realistic example, but is is an example of **downstream inference** (inferring state of node based on nodes that causally affect it). The network is fairly binary, with no unexpected behaviour (i.e. if something is broken, car wont start),
but it shows how many different aspects (i.e. nodes) can affect eachother. This example demonstrates a slightly bigger network (compared to the animals example).

# Why These?

These netforms are obviously of no practical purpose. They are good networks to demonstrate some of the properties of bayesian networks, and to play around with. I recommend you  do so. In the future, explainations and demonstrations will be added in CauseCade itself.

